v0.25: Task api (#1208)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/api/tasks.md

# Tasks

The `tasks` route gives information about the progress of [asynchronous operations](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md).

:::note
The task `uid` is incremented **globally.**
:::

## Get all tasks

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/tasks"/>

List all tasks globally regardless of the index involved. The `task` objects are contained in the `results` array.

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_all_tasks_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "uid": 1,
            "indexUid": "movies_reviews",
            "status": "enqueued",
            "type": "documentsAddition",
            "duration": null,
            "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z",
            "startedAt": null,
            "finishedAt": null
        },
        {
            "uid": 0,
            "indexUid": "movies",
            "status": "succeeded",
            "type": "documentsAddition",

>             "details": { "numberOfDocuments": 100 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "details": { 
                    "receivedDocuments": 100,
                    "indexedDocuments": 100
            },
```

    "finishedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:19.000000Z"
}
```

## Get task status of an index

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/indexes/:indexUid/tasks/:uid"/>

Get the status of a [task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) in a given [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).

#### Path variables

| Variable      | Description           |
| ------------- | --------------------- |
| **indexUid** | The index UID         |
| **uid**  | The task identifier |

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_task_by_index_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

Here is an example response representing [a processed task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md#understanding-tasks).

```json
{
    "uid": 1,
    "indexUid": "movies",
    "status": "succeeded",
    "type": "settingsUpdate",
    "details": {
        "rankingRules": [
            "typo",
            "ranking:desc",
            "words",
            "proximity",
            "attribute",
            "exactness"
        ]
    },
    "duration": "PT1S",
    "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:17.000000Z",
    "startedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:18.000000Z",
    "finishedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:19.000000Z"
}
```

> ## Get all task statuses in an index

Reviewer: It might make more sense to have this part above the previous one.

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/indexes/:indexUid/tasks"/>

Get the status of all [tasks](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) in a given [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).

#### Path variables

| Variable      | Description   |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| **indexUid** | The index UID |

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_all_tasks_in_index_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

Here is an example response representing an [enqueued task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md#understanding-tasks).

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "uid": 1,
            "indexUid": "movies",
            "status": "enqueued",
            "type": "documentsAddition",
            "duration": null,
            "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z",
            "startedAt": null,
            "finishedAt": null
        },
        {
            "uid": 0,
            "indexUid": "movies",
            "status": "succeeded",
            "type": "documentsAddition",

>             "details": { "numberOfDocuments": 100 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "details": { 
                    "receivedDocuments": 100,
                    "indexedDocuments": 100
            },
```

# Tasks

The `tasks` route gives information about the progress of [asynchronous operations](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md).

:::note
The task `uid` is incremented **globally.**
:::

## Get all tasks

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/tasks"/>

> List all tasks globally regardless of the index involved. The `task` objects are contained in the `results` array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
List all tasks globally, regardless of index. The `task` objects are contained in the `results` array.
```

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_all_tasks_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "uid": 1,
            "indexUid": "movies_reviews",
            "status": "enqueued",
            "type": "documentsAddition",
            "duration": null,
            "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z",
            "startedAt": null,
            "finishedAt": null
        },
        {

>             "uid": 0,

Reviewer 2: In the future, we should probably try to make the 0th task always an index creation—doesn't make much sense otherwise. Not a big deal though.

            "indexUid": "movies",
            "status": "succeeded",
            "type": "documentsAddition",
            "details": { 
                    "receivedDocuments": 100,
                    "indexedDocuments": 100
            },
            "duration": "PT16S",
            "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-11T09:25:53.000000Z",
            "startedAt": "2021-08-11T10:03:00.000000Z",
            "finishedAt": "2021-08-11T10:03:16.000000Z"
        }
    ]
}
```

:::note

> By default, **task unique identifiers (`uid`) are sorted in `desc` order.** This means that the most recent `task` objects appear first.

Reviewer 2: Removed "by default" because I don't believe there's any way to alter that behavior.

```suggestion
Tasks are displayed in descending order by `uid`. This means that **the most recently created `task` objects appear first**.
```

Reviewer 2: I think in most cases, sorting by `uid` should be the same as sorting by `enqueuedAt`—it's the order in which requests were received. I wonder if there's a case where this is not true? 🤔

@gmourier tagging you because I'm curious; it's not important so please don't feel any pressure to respond 😇

:::

> ## Get task status by `uid`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get task by `uid`
```

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/tasks/:uid"/>

> Get the status of a [task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) regardless of [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get a single [task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) by `uid`, regardless of [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).
```

#### Path variables

| Variable      | Description           |
| ------------- | --------------------- |
| **uid**  | The task identifier |

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_task_by_uid_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

Here is an example response representing [a processed task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md#understanding-tasks).

```json
{
    "uid": 1,
    "indexUid": "movies",
    "status": "succeeded",
    "type": "settingsUpdate",
    "details": {
        "rankingRules": [
            "typo",
            "ranking:desc",
            "words",
            "proximity",
            "attribute",
            "exactness"
        ]
    },
    "duration": "PT1S",
    "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:17.000000Z",
    "startedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:18.000000Z",
    "finishedAt": "2021-08-10T14:29:19.000000Z"
}
```

> ## Get all task statuses in an index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get all tasks for an index
```

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/indexes/:indexUid/tasks"/>

> Get the status of all [tasks](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) in a given [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
List all [tasks](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) for a given [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).
```

#### Path variables

| Variable      | Description   |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| **indexUid** | The index UID |

### Example

<CodeSamples id="get_all_tasks_in_index_1" />

#### Response: `200 Ok`

> Here is an example response representing an [enqueued task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md#understanding-tasks).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Multiple tasks here, only one is enqueued.

```json
{
    "results": [
        {
            "uid": 1,
            "indexUid": "movies",
            "status": "enqueued",
            "type": "documentsAddition",
            "duration": null,
            "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z",
            "startedAt": null,
            "finishedAt": null
        },
        {
            "uid": 0,
            "indexUid": "movies",
            "status": "succeeded",
            "type": "documentsAddition",
            "details": { 
                    "receivedDocuments": 100,
                    "indexedDocuments": 100
            },
            "duration": "PT16S",
            "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-11T09:25:53.000000Z",
            "startedAt": "2021-08-11T10:03:00.000000Z",
            "finishedAt": "2021-08-11T10:03:16.000000Z"
        }
    ]
}
```

> ## Get task status of an index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get task by index
```

<RouteHighlighter method="GET" route="/indexes/:indexUid/tasks/:uid"/>

> Get the status of a [task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) in a given [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get a single [task](/learn/advanced/asynchronous_operations.md) in a given [index](/learn/core_concepts/indexes.md).
```
